Source: https://rturn.net/meet-turns-new-board-chair-2/

# Blogs
# Meet TURN\’s New Board Chair!
Oct 5, 2022 | [News](https://rturn.net/category/news/)
Dr. Joe N. Savage, Jr. is a recognized leader with over 20 years of experience in the fields of homelessness, social policy, economic development, and human services administration. His work experience encompasses positions in which he was responsible for overseeing transitional and permanent supportive housing programs, Continuum of Care funding, strategic planning, and coalition building. His passion for this work has cultivated years of skills and expertise that have helped bring over $150 million of funding to support housing and services for the homeless and community development projects. Dr. Savage’s commitment to this work is rooted in his belief in the dignity of human life. Dr. Savage currently serves as a Board Member for Mosaic and Philadelphia Sunday Breakfast Rescue Mission and as the newly elected Board Chair for the Tenant Union Representative Network (TURN). His Board experience encompasses service on Development, Integrity & Compliance, and Finance committees. He received master degrees in social work and urban planning from the University of Pennsylvania where he also completed his undergraduate studies in neuroscience and religious studies, a master’s degree in legal studies from Washington University in St. Louis School of Law with a certificate in regulatory compliance, and a Ph.D. in Urban Affairs and Public Policy from the University of Delaware with a concentration in social and urban policy. Dr. Savage also has an Executive Certificate from the Harvard Kennedy School of Government Senior Executive Fellows program. He is currently employed as a Senior Regional Advisor for the United States Interagency Council on Homelessness (USICH) covering the Mid-Atlantic and Southeastern states. In this position, he is responsible for assisting states, local municipalities, Continua of Care, and homeless services providers implement federal homeless policy. Dr. Savage also holds Adjunct Faculty positions at Wilmington and Walden universities where he teaches courses in social research, advanced research methods, grant writing, and social policy and advocacy. Dr. Savage is a loving husband, father, “foodie”, and holds positions within the local clergy.
